 WELCOME TO THE PARK
Welcome to the territory of the Park of Montevecchia and Valle del Curone.
The natural park area, which extends over a large part of the protected area, is mainly intended for the conservation and restoration of natural characteristics.
The regional park area is intended for the needs of nature and environmental protection and cultural and recreational use, with regard to the development of agricultural, forestry and pastoral activities and other traditional activities to promote the economic, social and cultural growth of the resident communities.
The hills and the course of the Curone and Molgoretta streams are also protected by the European Union as a Special Area of Conservation managed by "Rete Natura 2000", for the presence of habitats and animal and plant species of Community interest, whose protection is essential for the conservation of the biological and systemic wealth of our continent.
In order to protect the Park, there are simple, but very important, rules of good behavior to follow:
1. Do not litter garbage, take them home for waste sorting.
2. For the protection of aquatic fauna, it is forbidden to walk, cycle or ride a horse in watercourses.
3. Respect the fauna. Do not disturb small or large animals. In the Natural Park it is forbidden to catch, kill or disturb animals.
4. Do not leave the paths. Respects the environment and the work of farmers.
5. The transit of bicycles and horses is allowed only along certain routes. Get informed and follow the signs where present. Horses and bicycles must be conducted with caution and respect for pedestrians.
6. The flora is protected. In the Natural Park it is forbidden to collect and damage plant species. You can find out about the rules for harvesting in the Regional Park.
7. You must avoid loud noises: you will hear the sounds of the natural environment and you will not disturb other visitors.
8. In the whole territory of the Park, dogs must always be led on a leash, in order not to disturb the fauna and other visitors. Dogs are not allowed, even if on a leash, in streams, springs and ponds.
9. It is forbidden to launch flying lanterns and fireworks. We want to prevent fires and not to disturb wildlife.
10. In the whole territory of the Park, it is forbidden to light fires.
11. It is forbidden to transit and stop with motor vehicles in the woods, meadows and cultivated areas.
12. In big relevance areas for environmental protection and in cultivated land, you must avoid parking, transit, play games and do other sport activities: you must respect the environment and the work of farmers.
Now you can start the guided tour! you are at the entrance of Cascina Butto. Walk the climb and, once you arrive at the top, you will find on your right the entrance to the visitors center.
Have a nice walk!
